1)
Bachelor of Science in Cardiac Perfusion - BS (CP)

Eligibility Criteria :  Higher Secondary School Certificate (12 years of schooling) in Pre-Medical Subjects (Biology is mandatory).
Course Duration: 4 Years on campus, academic component with laboratory rotations in affiliated Armed Forces Institute of Cardiology / National Institute of Heart Diseases, from 2nd year onwards.

Location:  Armed Forces Post Graduate Medical Institute (AFPGMI), Rawalpindi.
Degree Awarding Institute:  National University of Medical Sciences (NUMS), Islamabad.
Frequency:  Once every year (January/February).

Course Strengt: 25-30 students.

Learning Outcomes : Develop into expert members of the cardiac surgical team and provide lifesaving support to patients requiring extra corporeal circulation, including but not limited to major cardiothoracic, vascular and transplant surgeries, as well as support of the critically ill patients in specialized cardiac hospital.



2)


Bachelor of Science in Medical Laboratory Technology - BS (MLT)

Eligibility Criteria: Higher Secondary School Certificate (12 years of schooling) 05 MAR 27CC in Pre-Medical Subjects (Biology is mandatory)

 Course Duration: 4 Years on campus, academic component with laboratory rotations in affiliated Armed Forces institute of Pathology from 2nd year onwards 

 Location: Amed Forces Post Graduate Medical Institute (AFPGMI) Rwalpindi

 Degree Awarding Institute: National University of Medical Sciences (NUMS) Islamabad.

Frequency: Once every year (January/February)

Course Strength: 25-30 students.

Learning Outcomes. Assist the physicians in diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of diseases through the use of clinical laboratory tests in hospitals/ medical laboratories.




3)
Bachelor of Science in Medical Imaging Technology BS (MIT)


Eligibility Criteria: Higher Secondary School Certificate (12 years of schooling) in Pre-Medical Subjects (Biology is mandatory).

Course Duration: 4 Years on campus, academic component with laboratory rotations in affiliated Armed Forces Institute of Radiology and Imaging from 2 year onwards.

Location: Armed Forces Post Graduate Medical Institute (AFPGMI), Rawalpindi

 Degree Awarding Institute. National University of Medical Sciences (NUMS). Islamabad.

Frequency: Once every year (January/February). Course Strength. 25-30 students.

Learning Outcomes: Capability to handle basic imaging techniques of X-rays, ultrasonography, fluoroscopy, computerized tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and advanced knowledge of imaging facilitating the diagnostic services in the hospitals.



4)


Master of Science in Nursing

Eligibility Criteria:
(1) Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN).
(2) Minimum 5 x years of experience after graduation.

Course Duration: 2 Years, on campus including Research Project.

Location: Armed Forces Post Graduate Medical Institute (AFPGMI), Rawalpindi Degree Awarding Institute. National University of Medical Sciences (NUMS), Islamabad.

Frequency: Once every year (August).

Course Strength: 15-20 students.

Learning Outcomes: Knowledge of liberal art, sciences, nursing theories, educational theories and frameworks in the advanced nursing roles, utilization and dissemination of research in nursing practice, provision of leadership to bring change in health care and nursing education, utilization of skills to provide standard quality care to the clients and their families and demonstration to commitment to the professional growth and lifelong learning.





5)


Fellow of College of Physicians and Surgeons (FCPS) in Sub Specialties (2nd Fellowship)

 List of disciplines in which fellowship is offered is attached as Appendix 'II'. 

 Eligibility Criteria: FCPS or equivalent qualification in basic specially recognized by Pakistan Medical and Dental Council (PMDC) and College of Physicians and Surgeons of Pakistan (CPSP).

Course Duration: 3 Years on campus, supervisor-based training.
 Location: Armed Forces Post Graduate Medical Institute (AFPGMI), Rawalpindi through affiliated teaching hospitals / institutes.

Degree Awarding Institute: College of Physicians and Surgeons of Pakistan, Karachi.

Course Strength:  As per available supervisors.

Frequency: Twice every year (January and July).

Learning Outcomes: Consultant in respective specialty opsp auctions


6)

Master of Science in Public Health - MSPH

Eligibility Criteria
(1) MBBS/MD/ BDS or equivalent recognized by Pakistan Medical and Dental
Council (PMDC).
(2) Minimum 5 years of experience since graduation.

Course Duration: 2 years on campus including applied research.
Location: Anned Forces Post Graduate Medical Institute (AFPCMI). Rawalpindi. Degree Awarding Institute National University of Medical Sciences (NUMS). islamabad.

Frequency. Once every year (August).
Course Strength. 35-40 students.
Learning Outcomes:  Promote Public Health education within the framework of legal, ethical, moral and professional standards and provide leadership within the Public Health profession.